
how to make use of opposing forces to add some dynamism to the world - and
hopefully, some chaos.  

mathematical functions with interesting relative characteristics is a key
component to this chaos.  

With the right set of functions, any known domain ( or domains, for different
functions ) can map to an all-encompassing range - but more importantly, local maximums between functions can be the source of significan dynamism over that range.

For example, say arcs have a 'passability' that decreases with travel through
the arc, but regenerates with time, from 0 to 1.  The force required to pass
through the arc would be low at high passability, and low at lower
passabilities - a loose function of historical travel activity and current
conditions.  

Similarly, the force propelling a thing trough the arc would be infinite at
complete density, and infintesimal at complete emptiness - a concept that maps
itself easily to graph analysis.

If tuned properly, these functions together would provide a dynamic system
that would continue to adjust with inter-node travel.

Any dynamic system might include huge pools of stagnation - and indeed, only a
failrly small portion of most fractals, typically along "boundaries", tend to
be fascinatingly complex.  The tric is to control the domain _and_ range of
the chosen functions so that stagnation in itself can provide a source of
dynamism - of "feedback", as it were.

Other concepts:

simple game mechanics might be adapted for interactions between active
inhabitants; motivations described by carefully tuned functions would provide
some impetus to choose strategies more aggressive or defensive.

Intergenerational continuity is an interesting topic.  Genetic inheritance
does't necessarily imply, nor disallow, the passage of behavioral traits.  We
perhaps think of traits being passed down that are more easily observed in
genetic expression - but values within genetic material could just as easily
provide small adjustments to otherwise static functions, providing in place of
a "works or doesn't" kind of genetic material (the sort typically found in
computerized natural evolution engines), values that are valid for a
continuous domain.

traits we're used to find interesting are irrelevant and in fact don't exist.
Color has no obvious analogue, though we think of camoflauge  as one of the
most primary evolutionary evidence.  

But we can _invent_ any attributes we can imagine and implement.  We have the
ability to create size without much difficulty - having obvious implications
on inter-node travel, as well as easily imagined effects on game dynamics
between things.

what about speed?  Possibly not speed of movement - so far it seems that there
isn't continuous enough world locality for that to be a continuous value;
whether there is a good way to "timeout" a transit by an object is a good
question.  Expire values in redis might provide a good timeout , but how to
guarantee reliability and fairness alludes me.  Once could enqueue movements
to guarantee fairness ... maybe a sorted set ordered by some sort of timeout
value to find the soonest expiry, or perhaps even an intelligent queue
insertion process that could insert a new item midway though a list.  

actually, that would work quite well.  A sorted set would guarantee uniqueness
and a lua script could be used to guarantee pop order.  It's actually quite
simple - a value is the id of a thing needing a chance to act, and the score
would be the time at which the current action would be done.  This score would
allow for fairness.  Since LUA scripts are atomic, they provide a good
mechanism for codifying this.

it seems like a good solution, and the problem will have to be solved if
objects are not just driftwood tossed upon the sea, but rather fishes swimming
through it.  


Let the goals then be thus:

* provide transit rules and limits.  
	Find parameters that can change with time and can help to define a
	'passive' dynamism.

* provide inter-thing dynamics and start to explore 
	motivational functions of discretionary activity.

* provide a system to enqueue and process discretionary activity 
	fairly and reasonably accurately.


